And.
Hello everyone. I'm Krishna
Karta and today I'll be
presenting the idea password
pattern identification and in
this Hack Fest project I have
worked with Yashpreet Kaur. So
let's get through the agenda. So
today we'll be discussing
password.
Problem statement ID
implementation and the
technology used along with the
demonstration at the end. So
what's the problem statement?
According to some research, 90%
of the passwords are vulnerable
and are easy to predict. So it
becomes important to prevent the
users from setting up such
passwords in the application and
the main cause of this bridge is
the use of some patterns in the
password. So we are problem
statement revolves around that
that is to find the patterns in
the.
Us so it's so the implementation
will be basically on the part of
analyzing the old password that
are there in the database for
the users analysis of user
information, user profile,
etcetera. And on top of that we
will be using some of the NLP
models to find the common
language words that are present
in the.
Password so the text stack we
are using. So we have uh these
technologies to build up the
demo application for the UI and
we will have a flask framework
running on top of Python And
we'll be using some of the NLP
libraries along with tiny DB for
storing the user database.
Let's take a look at the demo.
So before going to the demo,
I'll just walk you through the
code. So this is the code
repository. So to run this
application we will be starting
with App dot Pai, so this will
be the entry point for the
project and in the source we
have this file that will be
having the all the logic for
finding the patterns and there
is some file called wordlist dot
TXT that will prevent the user
from setting up some common
words.
In the yeah. And after that we
have just this DB dot Jason this
is sample database that I have
for the user particular user and
there are some old passwords,
security questions and some
personal details of the user
available. Let's take a look at
the demo.
So this is the application for a
logging to the particular
application, so I'll just use
the user that I have available
in the database.
So once I successfully log in,
I'll be lending to this home
screen where I have some
password service related
functionalities like change of
the password, second factor,
authentication, security
questions and updating the
profile. So if you.
Take a look at the profile. You
will see all the personal
information of the users that it
has been there in the database
file. So and user have a choice
to update this particular user
information and setting up some
of the security questions. So
there are set of security
questions available for the user
to set. I have chose these two
questions for the as part of the
security questions and we will
be demonstrating the change
password. So before that I'll I
want you to take a look at.
Done these two parameters, so
one is the name of my favorite
pet. I'll try to set up my
password around this and let's
say my date of birth, so I'll
try to use these two parameters
in the password along with some
old passwords. So if I take a
look at the DB dot JSON I'll see
these are some of the sample old
passwords that were available.
So I'll be using those passwords
in the new password. So let's
say.
Umm.
So from the password it might
look like a very complex
password and let verify it
through the our pattern
identification method. So when I
send click on the verify button
so it says there are four
warnings and my submit button is
disabled. So I can't change my
password until I resolve these.
Warnings. So it says a pattern
forms in four of the aspects
like security answer exist, new
password contains the user
information and some old
password pattern is there and
NLP found some common words,
some dictionary words in the
particular new password. So
let's try to resolve 1 by 1. So
as you know as you have seen my
date of birth is 28 Feb 1999. So
let's try to change it to some
different value that is not
available in the password. So
I'll try to change it to this
and then I'll verify the
password again.
So as you can see, one of the
bus.
Personal information warning has
been gone, so let's try to uh,
uh, change one more. So this
password has been repeated from
my old password. So this
particular string out of it. So
I'll just remove it and I'll
replace it with something that
has not been.
No.
Used before and let's try to
verify the password again. So as
you can see that warning has
also been gone. So there is my
pet name available and that that
was my security answer as well.
So I'll remove the sum of the
characters from that and let's
try to.
Verify the password so as you
can see that warning has also
gone. So it says now some
predictable or common dictionary
words are there. So as you can
see there is something cache is
there. So if I remove.
This. Yeah. Now, now. This looks
like something that doesn't have
any dictionary word. Let's find
out. And. Yeah, so now all.
The warnings are gone and the
submit button is enabled. So if
I submit the password as let me
check the database as well so I
can see that my database has
been updated with the new
password and if I try to log in
with the new password I'll be
able to log in.
Thank you.